                                                                                                                                                  11


              TABLE IV: Tools Comparison for Event Counterfeiting and Inconsistent Logging

                                                Event Counterfeiting            Inconsistent Logging
                  Tool
                                                   Precision   Recall     F1     Precision   Recall     F1

                 SmartAxe                    40.50%   25.12%   31.01%    N/A     N/A     N/A
                XGuard                     87.75%   55.12%   67.70%   64.71%   91.75%   75.82%
               PEVENTCATCHER (Bytecode)    84.0%    100%   91.30%   62.50%   16.12%   39.31%
              PEVENTCATCHER (Source)     90.83%   86.51%   88.62%   90.30%    100%   94.90%



validation, leading to a lower precision as it may flag events that     2) Result:  In our experiments, we identified a Transfer
lack sufficient evidence of forgery. However, at the source code   Event Spoofing transaction in which a fake transfer appeared
level, PEVENTCATCHER performs comprehensive constraint   to move tokens from the address 0x8888...8888 to the victim’s
checks, improving precision significantly. For Inconsistent   wallet. Despite no actual token transfer occurring, at least
Logging, PEVENTCATCHER ’s bytecode analysis is limited   five major blockchain explorers—BscScan, OKLink, Bitquery,
to indexed parameters only, which reduces recall as it cannot   Tokenview, and Bsctrace [1], [2], [11], [12], [16]—incorrectly
identify issues related to non-indexed parameters. With source   recognized this spoofed event as a legitimate transaction. This
code access, PEVENTCATCHER can analyze both indexed   highlights the widespread vulnerability in off-chain systems,
and non-indexed parameters, thus achieving higher  recall.  which struggle to differentiate between genuine and phantom
In  contrast, SmartAxe and XGuard have inherent design   events.
limitations; SmartAxe only detects whether two functions emit     Additionally, we successfully replicated the “sleepminting”
the same event without considering constraint validation within   attack on testnet environments for two leading NFT mar-
call paths, while XGuard focuses on constraints within single   ketplaces, Opensea and Rarible. Despite the existence of
functions and lacks inter-function analysis. By analyzing both   monitoring solutions designed to detect such attacks, fully
function interactions and call paths, PEVENTCATCHER detects   mitigating these vulnerabilities remains an ongoing challenge.
vulnerabilities that the other tools miss, achieving superior     Moreover, during our security audits, we discovered critical
results in both Event Counterfeiting and Inconsistent Logging   vulnerabilities in six cryptocurrency wallets, which we reported
detection.                                                           to the respective project teams or through bug bounty platforms.
  3) Limitations: The false positives and false negatives in   Four of these vulnerabilities were confirmed, with one resulting
our evaluation revealed two main limitations of our approach.   in a $600 bounty from the project team.
First, when dealing with incomplete contract code, such as     In our audit of several blockchain bridges, we identified
interface calls in certain functions, our computed constraints   vulnerabilities in off-chain code that left them exposed to the
may not always be precise, leading to weaker constraints and  Mimicry Contract Attack. In this attack, malicious contracts
thus false positives. Second, compilation errors occurred with   emit forged events that are incorrectly processed as legitimate
some smart contracts that were verified by blockchain explorers  by off-chain systems. One vulnerable system we uncovered
but failed to compile with our tool for analysis [39], due to  was forked and deployed by a public blockchain project with a
Solidity compile bugs. Addressing these limitations will be a   market capitalization exceeding $250 million as of October 9,
focus of our future work.                                    2024. These vulnerabilities have been reported to the respective
                                                                   project teams for remediation.
                                                                     Additionally, we identified a display issue with event data in
  Answer to RQ2: PEVENTCATCHER has proven highly
                                                                  the popular blockchain explorer Blockscout [60], which could
   effective in detecting phantom event vulnerabilities, sur-
                                                    compromise the accuracy of transaction records. This flaw
  passing current state-of-the-art tools in precision, recall,
                                                           could potentially lead to user misinterpretation of blockchain
  and F1 score.
                                                                     data, undermining trust in transaction history.
                                                                   In our audit of multiple active smart contract projects, we also
C. Real-World Attack Feasibility (RQ3)
                                                        found that three DeFi projects and one GameFi project were
   1) Methodology: We applied our tool to conduct testing on                                                              vulnerable to the Inconsistent Logging attack, a vulnerability
various blockchain platforms, aiming to identify vulnerabilities                                                                                     first proposed in this paper (see IV-A2). The highest affected
related to phantom event attacks in smart contracts. Beyond                                                         market capitalization in this set of projects was $169,688.
on-chain testing, we also audited various off-chain applications,
including blockchain explorers, NFT marketplaces, and cryp-
tocurrency wallets. These audits focused on evaluating security    Answer to RQ3: Our research demonstrates that phantom
protocols and identifying potential vulnerabilities that could     event  attacks are  feasible on real-world blockchain
be exploited by phantom events, ensuring a comprehensive      platforms, specifically targeting blockchain explorers, NFT
analysis of both on-chain and off-chain components.              marketplaces, DeFi, GameFi, and cryptocurrency wallets.
  All identified phantom event vulnerabilities were tested     This emphasizes the urgent need for improved security
in a controlled local environment using simulated scenarios     measures within  the blockchain ecosystem. Detailed
to ensure no disruption or harm to real-world blockchain     reports and confirmation cases are available in the
platforms.