                                                                                                                                                   8


                        TABLE II: Transaction logs of the pNetwork attack.

  Events    Parameters                                       Emitters           Parameter Values

  Burned     operator, from, amount, data, operatorData         pBTC                 (Attacker, Attacker, 0, ,    )

   Transfer   from, to, amount                          pBTC                 (Attacker, address(0), 0)

  Redeem    redeemer, value, underlyingAssetRecipient, userData  pBTC                 (Attacker, 0, Attacker Bitcoin address,   )

  Redeem    redeemer, value, underlyingAssetRecipient, userData   Malicious Contract    (Attacker, 274[...]144, Attacker Bitcoin address,   )


control flow graph (ICFG) from the IR (line 2) and extracts all    is added to Ev as vulnerable to Event Counterfeiting (line 16).
event log operations (LogOps) from the IR (line 3). Each log     After analyzing all paths for a log operation, the algorithm
operation consists of an event signature and a set of event data   checks  if multiple tainted paths exist for the same event
variables. The algorithm then initializes an empty set Vars to   (line 18). If so, the event is flagged as susceptible to Event
record the event variables (line 4).                              Counterfeiting due to the presence of multiple emission paths
  The construction of the ICFG involves recovering function-   (line 19).
level information, such as function names and event signatures,    By analyzing the tainted data flow and identifying conditions
by matching hashed identifiers in the bytecode with entries   such as missing constraints, unchecked external calls, and
in a signature database. A control flow graph (CFG) is then   the absence of storage operations, the algorithm effectively
constructed using basic blocks that represent possible execution   detects vulnerabilities. Events flagged in Ev are susceptible
paths within each function. These basic blocks are connected   to either Event Counterfeiting, where the same event may
by directed edges based on control flow instructions and   be misleadingly emitted from multiple paths, or Inconsistent
jump targets, forming the CFG. To capture interactions across   Logging, where logged data may lack of control.
functions, interprocedural calls are identified, and edges are     2) Source-Code-Level Validation of Event Parameter Con-
added between caller and callee functions, thereby extending   straints: Bytecode-level analysis is limited as it only reveals
the CFG into an ICFG.                                      indexed event parameters, without access to the full semantics
  For each log operation in LogOps, the algorithm updates   of events. Consequently, bytecode-level analysis can only
Vars with the variables involved in the log operation (line 6). It   detect potential Inconsistent Logging issues by identifying
then performs a BACKWARDSLICING analysis on the ICFG to   inconsistencies in indexed parameters, and it cannot address
extract slices representing the reverse execution flow from the   non-indexed parameters. To achieve complete validation, source
log operation to the function entry point (line 7). These slices   code analysis is necessary. At the source code level, we gain
are used to derive inter-functional paths (Paths) for further   access to both indexed and non-indexed parameters, enabling a
analysis (line 8).                                           comprehensive evaluation of potential vulnerabilities, including
  For each path p in Paths, the algorithm performs taint   both Event Counterfeiting and Inconsistent Logging, which
analysis using the TAINTANALYSIS function (line 9). This   bytecode-level analysis alone cannot fully uncover.
function evaluates whether tainted data propagates from the    To address these challenges, we rely on the full semantic
log operation to the path entry point. Starting from the log   context of the contract source code to trace event-related
operation, tainted variables are tracked by propagating taint   call paths and apply symbolic execution to verify parameter
through instructions in the reverse execution path. Specifically,   constraints. This ensures that events are emitted with consistent
if an instruction interacts with tainted variables, its associated   values across all paths, aligning both indexed and non-indexed
variables are added to the set of tainted variables. The process   parameters with the intended contract logic. Additionally, Event
continues until reaching the path entry point, which serves as   Counterfeiting detection at the source-code level involves
the source of the taint. If tainted variables are found at the path   analyzing multiple execution paths to verify that events are
entry, the function returns the entry point as the (sourceop);   not improperly used across functions, providing a depth of
otherwise, it returns null.                                       validation that cannot be achieved with bytecode analysis alone.
   If a source of tainted data (sourceop)  is identified, the    At the source-code level, as detailed in Alg. 2, the tool begins
algorithm checks if there are any storage operations (sstore)  by initializing an empty set Ev to store potentially vulnerable
in the portion of the path leading to the source (line 11).   events. Then extracts all events E from the smart contract
Additionally, it verifies whether the variables involved in these   source code SC. For each event in E, the tool performs the
sstore operations are subject to constraints (e.g., conditional   following steps:
jumps like jumpi). If no sstore operations are found, or if      First, the tool extracts all execution paths Paths in SC that
the sstore operations lack constraints on their variables, the   lead to the emission of the event using the SEARCHPATHS
corresponding event is added to Ev as potentially vulnerable   function. This involves traversing the contract’s call graph to
to Inconsistent Logging (line 12). The event is also recorded in   capture all inter-procedural paths from user-callable functions
a separate set of tainted paths for further evaluation (line 13).   to the event-emitting statements. For each path p ∈Paths,
   If no source of tainted data is identified, the algorithm   the tool performs symbolic execution using SYMBOLICEXEC
checks if the path contains an external call (call) without   to extract the path constraints related to the event parameters.
corresponding  constraints  (e.g.,  conditional branches  like  The tool then applies the CHECKLOGGINGINCONSISTENCY
jumpi) (line 15). If such conditions are found, the event   function to verify if any path shows inconsistencies in logging