                                                                                                                                                  15


                                           TABLE V: Real case of transfer event spoofing attack transac-an application, which interacts with a database to insert logs
                                                                        tions.and with a smart contract on the blockchain to emit events.
However, inconsistencies can arise between the database logs                                                                             Sender     Transfer From    Transfer To            Token
and the blockchain transaction logs due to discrepancies in
                                                                    1   Victim     Victim          0x734659...50Ca79F7   USDT
logging practices. Attackers can exploit this by directly calling
the record function, potentially creating mismatches between     2   Attacker   Victim         0x73435A..2Bca79F7   FAKE USDT
the application’s internal log records and the blockchain’s    3   Victim     Victim          0x73435A...2Bca79F7  USDT
transaction logs.

                                                                    vulnerabilities in wallets and blockchain explorers that parse
                                                        and display transfer events. As shown in Table V, after a user
                                                                   sent funds to a legitimate address (0x734. . . a79F7), the attacker
                                                             forged a transfer event, making it appear as though the funds
                                                       were sent to a similar address controlled by the attacker. Due
                                                                     to the way certain wallets and explorers processed these events,
                         (a) Blended Event Attack                      the fake transfer was displayed as legitimate, leading the user
                                                                   to mistakenly send additional funds to the attacker’s address,
                                                                    resulting in significant financial losses [49].





                      (b) Mimicry Contract Attack

            Fig. 9: Two type of Contract imitation

   Figure 9 illustrates two types of contract imitation attacks.
In the Blended Event Attack, a malicious contract interacts
with an authentic contract, and logs from both contracts are
recorded in the same transaction, which may mislead validators.
In the Mimicry Contract Attack, the attacker deploys a contract
that imitates a real contract, generating deceptive logs that
appear to originate from the authentic contract, creating further
confusion for validators.


C. Case of Transfer Event Spoofing

   Figure 10 illustrates an example of a Transfer Event Spoofing
attack, where the attacker forges the event sender, causing
blockchain explorers and wallets to incorrectly display it as a
successful transfer. This misrepresentation can deceive users
and is used as a social engineering tactic to exploit trust in
these interfaces.
  The Transfer Spoofing attack on 9 February 2024, where an
attacker successfully executed a Transfer Event Spoofing attack,
resulting in a loss of $1.04 million USD. This attack exploited





               Fig. 10: Airdrop event spoofing.