                                                                                                                                                             1

    Phantom Events: Demystifying the Issues of Log
                 Forgery in Blockchain


          Yixuan Liu   , Yuxin Dong   , Ye Liu   , Xiapu Luo   , Senior Member, IEEE, and Yi Li   , Member, IEEE




           Abstract—With the rapid development of blockchain technology,   in specific domains, such as cross-chain bridges [24], [53],
         transaction logs play a central role in various applications,   [54], NFT ownership [46], code inconsistencies [5], and token
         including decentralized exchanges, wallets, cross-chain bridges,                                                                        behaviors [59], a comprehensive study on event forgery across
        and other third-party services. However, these logs, particularly
                                                                       multiple applications remains absent. This paper addresses         those based on smart contract events, are highly susceptible
          to manipulation and forgery, creating substantial security risks   this gap by introducing Phantom Events, a new class of
          across the ecosystem. To address this issue, we present the first   vulnerabilities that reveal the widespread risks of log forgery on2025
         in-depth security analysis of transaction log forgery in EVM-   the blockchain. Unlike previous studies on isolated scenarios,
         based blockchains, a phenomenon we term Phantom Events.                                                                     our work systematically summarizes event misuse across decen-
      We systematically model five types of attacks and propose a
                                                                                  tralized applications and explores distinct detection methods toFeb   tool designed to detect event forgery vulnerabilities in smart
          contracts. Our  evaluation demonstrates  that our approach   identify phantom events. In prior studies, detection tools such as
         outperforms  existing  tools  in  identifying  potential phantom  XScope [24] and XGuard [54] operate at the source code level,19          events. Furthermore, we have successfully identified real-world   limiting detection when only bytecode is available. Conversely,
          instances for all five types of attacks across multiple decentralized                                                             SmartAxe [53] and TokenScope [59] analyze bytecode but their
          applications. Finally, we call on community developers to take
                                                                      bytecode-only approach misses event parameter details. Guidi et          proactive steps to address these critical security vulnerabilities.
                                                                                               al. [46], which focuses solely on transaction logs, experiences
                                                                   high false-positive rates due to limited contextual analysis.
                                        I. INTRODUCTION                   Our tool combines bytecode, source code (when available),[cs.CR]
          Blockchain  is a decentralized digital ledger technology  and transaction data, enabling comprehensive detection across
          that securely records and verifies transactions across multiple   multiple vulnerabilities while reducing the false positives that
        computers, ensuring data  integrity and transparency  [47].   affect single-layer analysis methods.
         Bitcoin (BTC), the most prominent token in the blockchain    Phantom events are subtle manipulations within blockchain
        ecosystem, reached a remarkable market capitalization of   systems that turn normal contract events into hidden channels
        $1,800 billion in November 2024, demonstrating the impact   for unauthorized actions. These events compromise trust in
        and success of this technology [48].                          blockchain transactions, enabling unauthorized activities that
           Building on blockchain technology, Decentralized Appli-  bypass typical security checks. They either mimic or slightly
         cations (DApps) have emerged as a key innovation [42].   alter smart contract events to mislead event listeners, user
        These applications run on smart contracts deployed across   interfaces, and blockchain analysis tools. This exploitation
         various blockchain networks, such as Ethereum, Polygon, and  damages data integrity and can lead to substantial financial and
        Binance Smart Chain (BSC). The expansion of DApps reflects a   reputational losses. For example, on 9 February 2024, attackers
           shift toward decentralized application development, providing   caused a 1.04 million USD loss by forging transfer events [49].
         diverse services such as Decentralized Finance (DeFi) and    Our research focuses on understanding and categorizingarXiv:2502.13513v1  Gamefi. This evolving ecosystem  is supported by a wide   the various types of phantom events. We conducted a com-
          infrastructure, including cryptocurrency wallets and blockchain   prehensive survey of recent blockchain security reports and
          explorers, which contribute to the dynamism of the blockchain   articles to gather real-world attacks that exploit vulnerabilities
         landscape [43].                                                   related to phantom events. Furthermore, we audited multiple
          Smart contract events and transaction logs are essential for   active smart contracts and developed a security model to
         tracking actions within blockchain applications, supporting   process blockchain events (Sect.  III), which serves as the
          functionalities in cross-chain bridges, wallets, and NFT market-  foundation for analyzing and categorizing the collected attack
          places. Falsifying these logs can undermine security, leading   scenarios (Sect. IV). Furthermore, we developed a tool named
          to asset theft, fraud, and interoperability issues that threaten  PEVENTCATCHER, designed to detect vulnerabilities related
         user trust. While past research has examined vulnerabilities   to phantom events (Sect. V). Designing PEVENTCATCHER
                                                                        presented several challenges: (1) many contracts exist only as
            Yixuan Liu and Yi Li are with College of Computing and Data Science,   bytecode, lacking event semantics, which complicates analysis;
         Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
            Yuxin Dong is with School of Software and Microelectronics, Peking   (2) phantom events mimic the format of legitimate events,
            University, Beijing, China.                                    making them hard to discern; and (3) understanding the business
           Ye Liu is with School of Computing and Information Systems, Singapore   logic of contracts is necessary to determine the presence of
         Management University, Singapore.
            Xiapu Luo  is with the Department of Computing, The Hong Kong   irregularities.
           Polytechnic University, Hong Kong.                                 Using our security model and detection tool, we identified nu-