                                                                                                                                                  10


                                         TABLE  III: Number of detected  attack  transactions and     blockchain platforms, and how does PEVENTCATCHER
                                                                successful attacks by tools.    perform in transaction-level detection? We aim to under-
     stand the need for validators to verify the origins of events                                                                              Project         XScope        PEVENTCATCHER
     through contract addresses and source functions.
                                                                                           Attacks   Attack Trans.   Successful Attacks
   • RQ2 How effective is PEVENTCATCHER in detecting po-
      tential phantom events from smart contract? We developed     THORChain #1         9              9                  9
                                                             THORChain #2        41             48                 41
    PEVENTCATCHER and constructed a custom benchmark      pNetwork             3              5                  3
     to evaluate its effectiveness.                                       Qubit Bridge          20             20                 20
                                                                                     meter.io           N/A              5                  5   • RQ3 How feasible  is  it to perform such attacks in
                                                             CENNZnet         N/A              1                  1
     real world? We aim to validate whether the identified
     vulnerabilities can be performed in real-world scenarios.

                                                 Answer to RQ1: Our analysis reveals a significant
A. Prevalence of Phantom Events (RQ1)
                                                              presence of phantom events across Ethereum, BSC, and
  Tools like TokenScope [59] have contributed to detecting     Polygon, based on just nine addresses. Furthermore, our
inconsistencies in token behavior, and Guoyi Ye et al. [51]     detection rules demonstrated effectiveness compared to
have demonstrated the prevalence of forged user addresses for      state-of-the-art tools.
transfer events. We aim to explore two specific aspects: the
prevalence of suspicious addresses in phantom event attacks,
                                                             B. Phantom Event Detection from Code (RQ2)and whether such attacks are common in cross-chain bridges.
   1) Methodology: To better understand the real-world occur-     1) Datasets: SmartAxe [53] and XGuard [54] are currently
rence of phantom events, we conduct two separate experiments   the two known tools for detecting cross-chain vulnerabilities,
using blockchain transaction data.                             with SmartAxe focusing on bytecode-level analysis and XGuard
  In the  first experiment, we focused on nine particular   providing source code-level analysis.
forged addresses, specifically from 0x1111...1111 through     In our analysis of the SmartAxe dataset, we identified that
0x9999...9999, as these addresses are highly unlikely to be   only 8 of the 20 attacks were caused by Event Counterfeiting,
generated or used in normal transactions. We examined the   with vulnerable function path pairs existing within bridge
transactions up to October 21, 2024, on the Ethereum, BSC, and   contracts. We re-labeled these 8 attacks and added 29 more
Polygon blockchains, looking for ERC-20 token movements   function path pairs affected by Event Counterfeiting from the
originating from these addresses. This approach helps measure  129 bridges analyzed by SmartAxe. To complement this, we
the prevalence of phantom events across different blockchain   selected 500 BSC smart contracts with low similarity (using
platforms.                                                       the TF-IDF algorithm) from the 452,666 verified contracts in
  In the second experiment, we created detection rules for  BSC [38] and manually annotated them. After deduplication,
cross-chain bridges based on our transaction-level analysis,  we identified 80 additional function pairs affected by Event
given that bridges are highly vulnerable to phantom event   Counterfeiting.
attacks. We compared our findings with those of XScope [24],    By combining SmartAxe and XGuard datasets, along with
the only existing tool for detecting bridge attack transactions,  manually annotated function pairs, we assembled a comprehen-
using its associated dataset.                                      sive data set containing 117 function pairs affected by Event
   2) Result: In our first experiment, focusing on nine specific   Counterfeiting for evaluating our detection tool.
addresses, we identified a significant occurrence of phantom    To detect Inconsistent Logging, we used a dataset of 28
events in ERC-20 token transfers, as shown in Fig. 7. We   manually audited cases of Inconsistent Logging parameters,
found 18,099 such events on Ethereum, 1,245,125 on BSC, and  which were identified during our audits.
436,407 on Polygon. Such events, if not properly verified, could     2) Result: In our experiments, PEVENTCATCHER signif-
lead to security exploits. This significant presence from just nine   icantly outperformed SmartAxe and XGuard in detecting
addresses highlights the critical need for rigorous transaction   both Event Counterfeiting and Inconsistent Logging vulner-
verification to maintain the security and trustworthiness of   abilities, as shown in Table IV. For Event Counterfeiting,
blockchain operations.                                 SmartAxe achieved an F1 score of 31.01% with a precision
  In the second experiment (the result shown in Table III),   of 40.50% and a recall of 25.12%, while XGuard reached an
we detected all transactions reported by XScope and identified  F1 score of 67.70% with a precision of 87.75% and a recall
additional attack transactions. XScope only records transactions   of 55.12%. In comparison, PEVENTCATCHER demonstrated
where attacks have already taken place, indicated by a fund   superior performance, achieving an F1 score of 91.30% at
transfer on the destination chain. In contrast, we were able   the bytecode level and 88.62%  at the source code  level.
to detect attacks before a transfer occurred, helping project   For Inconsistent Logging detection, PEVENTCATCHER also
teams identify attackers proactively. We also detected attack   outperformed XGuard, achieving an F1 score of 94.9% with
transactions on meter.io [45], which XScope mentioned in   perfect recall, compared to XGuard’s 75.82%.
its attack incident list but did not analyze. Additionally, we    The difference in performance metrics for PEVENTCATCHER
discovered an attack transaction on CENNZnet, which resulted   ’s bytecode and source code implementations highlights specific
in a loss of 150 ETH. This incident had not been previously   limitations in each approach. In Event Counterfeiting detection,
disclosed or reported by any other tools or security companies.  PEVENTCATCHER ’s bytecode-level analysis lacks constraint