                                                                                                                                                  12


  supplementary materials.                                   B. Smart Contract Events
                                                                 Generally, logging messages enhances program compre-
                                                          hension and reduces maintenance  costs, but research on
D. Threats to Validity                                           Solidity event logging and security  is  still limited. Li  et
                                                                                 al. [23] conducted the first empirical study on Solidity event
  The internal validity threats primarily stem from potential
                                                              logging and developing a tool to identify the event that causes
inaccuracies introduced during the manual data labeling process.
                                                          unnecessary gas usage. Zhang et  al. [24] designed a tool
To improve the accuracy of data labeling, we adopted a three-
                                                 named Xscope which finds security violation events in cross-
tier approach, where two authors independently labeled the
                                                            chain bridges. Cernera et al. [25] tracked the tokens created
data and a third author reviewed their labels. This method
                                                    by internal transactions by scanning the logs looking for
involved a thorough review at three distinct levels to enhance
                                                              Transfer events. Additionally, Guidi et al. [46] analyzed the
the precision of our dataset categorization.
                                                  phenomenon of sleepminting and explored the use of Forta
  To ensure external validity, we diversified the types and
                                                                   for tracking and alerting about suspicious events. Zhu et
sources of datasets used in our experiments. In addition to the
                                                                                al. [5] proposed a technique called DocCon, which detects
bridge-focused data provided by SmartAxe and XGuard, we
                                                                inconsistencies between Solidity code and its corresponding
expanded our dataset to include a broader range of scenarios.
                                                           documentations. These inconsistencies include documented
Furthermore, we avoided using smart contracts with high
                                                             event emissions which do not appear in code, or vice versa.
similarity to improve the diversity and validity of our analysis.
                                                       TokenScope [59] contributed to the detection of inconsistencies
                                                                     in token behaviors by monitoring ERC-20 events. Despite these
                                                            advancements, most research has only considered issues related
                  VII. RELATED WORK
                                                                     to events in specific scenarios and has not fully addressed the
                                                                  generality of attacks caused by phantom events.A. Smart Contract Security Analysis

                                                                          VIII. MITIGATION STRATEGIES  In recent years, a large number of techniques have been
proposed to analyze the security of smart contracts.              Mitigating vulnerabilities caused by phantom events re-
                                                                quires a comprehensive approach, addressing smart contract
Static Analysis. Tikhomirov et al. [34] designed SmartCheck,
                                                          development, ecosystem infrastructure, and attack detection
a system translating Solidity source code to XML and detecting
                                                       mechanisms. From the perspective of contract development,
bugs via xPath patterns. Grech et al. [32] proposed a static
                                                             developers should implement strict validation mechanisms to
analysis framework termed Gigahorse that translates the stack-
                                                             ensure that event parameters are verified before emission and
based bytecode to the register-based intermediate representation.
                                                              access control mechanisms for the functions. It is essential to
A similar tool named Slither [33] was proposed by Fesit that
                                                               enforce proper state transitions to prevent mismatches between
targets solidity source code. Lu et al. [40] design a smart
                                                              emitted events and the actual contract state.
contracts security analysis tool named NeuCheck which is based
                                                        At the ecosystem level, off-chain systems like blockchain ex-
on syntax tree parsing. Ghaleb et al. [63] proposed eTainter,
                                                                       plorers, wallets, and DApps must adopt more robust validation
a static analysis tool that detects gas-related vulnerabilities in
                                                               techniques to distinguish legitimate events from phantom events.
smart contracts by applying taint tracking to bytecode.
                                                          Event emitter validation, where the source of the event is cross-
Symbolic Execution. Luu et al. [19] proposed Oyente, a pio-  checked with the contract address, helps ensure that events
neering symbolic execution tool for Ethereum smart contracts   originate from authorized contracts. Furthermore, improving
to detect bugs. Lin et al. [4] presented SolSEE, the first source-  data sanitization processes in off-chain applications is critical
level symbolic execution engine for Solidity smart contracts.   to prevent vulnerabilities such as cross-site scripting (XSS) and
Ma et al. [35] introduced Pluto for detecting security bugs by  SQL injection (SQLi). Enhanced cross-chain security protocols
reconstructing inter-contract CFGs. Pasqua et al. [26] proposed   are necessary for cross-chain bridges, ensuring that events on
a method based on the symbolic execution of EVM operands for   both the source and destination chains are validated to prevent
precise CFG construction and improved vulnerability detection.  event forgery and manipulation.
Ruaro et al. [61] implement CRUSH, which leverages symbolic     In terms of security attack detection, continuous real-time
execution and program slicing to detect storage collisions   monitoring of on-chain transactions and events is essential to
among such contract groups.  Gritti  et  al. [62] developed   detect and flag suspicious activities, such as Transfer Event
JACKAL, which performs symbolic execution based on control   Spoofing or Contract Imitation. Defining detailed detection
flow graphs (CFG) and function call graphs (FCG) to detect   rules, both for on-chain contract behavior and off-chain event
confused contract vulnerability. In addition, industry solutions   handling, allows for more comprehensive identification of
such as Mytrhil [27] and Manticore [36] have become standard   vulnerabilities. Additionally, regular security audits of both
tools for smart contract audits.                               smart contracts and off-chain systems should be conducted to
  Our approach involves developing a detection framework   identify potential weaknesses, particularly focusing on event
that combines multiple techniques, including bytecode-level   emission logic, access controls, and transaction validation.
analysis, source code analysis, transaction-level monitoring,  Through a combination of these strategies, the risk posed by
and symbolic execution, but the issues addressed in this paper  phantom events can be significantly reduced, improving the
cannot be captured by any existing vulnerability patterns.       security and reliability of blockchain systems.