                                                                                                                                                   9


Algorithm 2 Finding Inconsistent Logging and Event Coun-
terfeiting via Symbolic Execution

    Input: SC, the source code of smart contracts.
    Output: Ev, a set of phantom events.
 1: Ev = ∅
 2: extract E, i.e., all events from SC.
 3: for event ∈E do
 4:   Paths ←SEARCHPATHS(event, SC) ▷Get all paths reaching the
    event
 5:     for p ∈Paths do
 6:       constraints ←SYMBOLICEXEC(p)
 7:           if CHECKLOGGINGINCONSISTENCY(constraints) then
 8:        Ev ←Ev ∪{event}
 9:     for p1, p2 ∈Paths do
10:       constraints1 ←SYMBOLICEXEC(p1)
11:       constraints2 ←SYMBOLICEXEC(p2)
12:           if SMT-SOLVE(constraints1 ∧constraints2) then                                                                                                                 (a) BSC
13:        Ev ←Ev ∪{event}
14: return Ev



by comparing constraints for all parameters (both indexed
and non-indexed). This function is similar to the bytecode
analysis, it will detect vulnerabilities by checking for missing
constraints on variables, unchecked external calls, or missing
storage operations. If inconsistencies are detected, the event is
added to Ev as potentially vulnerable to Inconsistent Logging.
  Next, the tool performs Event Counterfeiting detection by
considering all pairs of distinct paths (p1, p2) in Paths which
have the same event. For each pair,  it performs symbolic
execution to obtain constraints constraints1 and constraints2
                                                                                                           (b) ETH
for each path. Using an SMT solver, it checks if the conjunction
constraints1 ∧constraints2 is satisfiable. If the solver finds
a solution, this indicates that there is an overlap in parameter
values between the two paths, making it difficult for validators
to distinguish between events emitted from different paths. In
such cases, the event is added to Ev as potentially susceptible
to Event Counterfeiting.
   Finally, the tool returns the set Ev, which contains events
flagged for potential vulnerabilities. For example, consider the
Deposit event from Fig. 4, which is emitted by the functions
deposit and depositETH. The tool identifies these functions in
the AST of the contract, then analyzes their respective execution
paths to extract the constraints for the event parameters. For
depositETH, the constraint is msg.value > 0, while for deposit,
                                                                                                               (c) Polygon
the constraint is bool(token.call(signature)) ∧(amount > 0).
Using an SMT solver, the tool evaluates these constraints to   Fig. 7: Analysis of ERC-20 transfer phantom events across
check for any overlapping parameter values. If an intersection   different platforms for 9 addresses.
exists,  this suggests  potential Event Counterfeiting, as a
validator may be unable to distinguish between emissions
from these two functions, leading the tool to flag the event as   detailed analysis on event emissions and parameter constraints.
forgeable for further review.                      We employ the Z3 [7] as our constraint solver to handle
                                                           symbolic execution and eliminate infeasible paths. Additionally,
        VI. IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIMENTS            the tool includes a transaction-level off-chain monitoring system
                                                                     that parses on-chain data and applies custom rules to detect
  Our tool  is implemented in Python and supports both
                                                          anomalies and verify the success of attack transactions. All
bytecode-level and source code-level analysis for smart con-
                                                        major components, including the bytecode analysis engine,
tracts, as well as transaction-level monitoring. For bytecode-
                                                            source code symbolic executor, and transaction monitoring
level analysis, we use the Gigahorse framework to construct
                                                            system, were developed by us. The implementation is based
the ICFG from compiled bytecode. At the source code level,
                                                                    in Python and includes over 5,000 lines of code.
our tool supports all versions of Solidity compatible with
Slither [33], allowing us to extract the ASTs and perform      • RQ1 How  prevalent are phantom  events on major